[docs] [ENG-10518] creating store assets (#25376)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/store-assets.mdx

---
title: Create Store Assets
description: Learn how to create screenshots and previews for your app's store pages.
sidebar_title: Store assets
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';

Before you can submit your app to the App Store and Play Store, you need to provide some assets for your store listing page.

> The goal of these images and videos is to give prospective users an idea of what your app experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of these images and videos is to give your prospective users an idea of what your app experience
```

> is going to be like.

Reviewer: let's let the editor do the wrapping 👼

> The most important assets you need to add are the app screenshots. Note that while they are called "app screenshots" on both stores, and they *do* have to include accurate

Reviewer: do we have anything to support that these are the most important? if not maybe we can leave it out

Author: They're the only one needed for both stores. I'll say that instead.

**Pros**: straightforward to do; most accurate representation of your app

**Cons**: need to load the app on different devices for a full range of screenshots

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Expo Go App Store Listing Page"
  src="/static/images/guides/expo-go-screenshots.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

### Option 2: screenshots within a design

The majority of apps use this approach: it involves taking screenshots of the app (or in some cases using existing
designs instead of actual screenshots) and embedding them in the store assets along with appropriate messaging.

**Pros:** allows conveying additional messaging within the assets

**Cons:** the assets need to be created using a design program

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Brex App Store Listing Page"
  src="/static/images/guides/brex-screenshots.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

### Option 3: make it fancy

Here you can use elements of your app design to highlight on the store pages, but incorprate them into a design with creative messaging.

**Pros:** you can make your store page really creative and fun

**Cons:** need an experienced designer to create and maintain the assets

<ImageSpotlight

>   alt="Screenshots of theMS Office Store Listing Page"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alt="Screenshots of the MS Office Store Listing Page"
```

Reviewer: one small concern i have here is that people might think we're implying that office is using expo

Author: I don't have a better alternative for now, but I'll keep looking and if I find one, I'll replace the image.

  src="/static/images/guides/office-screenshots.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

## iOS App Store Asset Requirements

For the iOS App Store you can upload screenshots (images) and previews (videos). For each, Apple requires specific
widths and heights, so make sure you reference the [documentation](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications/)
for the exact sizing. Being even a single pixel off will mean you are unable to submit the images.

> See this [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/5lQcrHYhUZkIxsLYCZa3S6/Store-Asset-Requirements?type=design&node-id=1-43&mode=design&t=eFTsHStO7OY2lLsd-0) for an overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See our ["Store Asset Requirements" Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/5lQcrHYhUZkIxsLYCZa3S6/Store-Asset-Requirements?type=design&node-id=1-43&mode=design&t=eFTsHStO7OY2lLsd-0) for an overview
```

At a minimum, Apple requires you to upload 2 screenshots for an iPhone without the notch, and 2 screenshots for the iPhone with the notch,
but you an upload up to 10 screenshots per localisation. Note that if your app is available in multiple languages and your screenshots
include text, you should upload screenshots with the appropriate language for each localisation.

If your app runs on an iPad, you will need to also provide iPad-sized screenshots.

Screenshots can be portrait or landscape.

### Preview (optional)

An app preview is a video you can choose to include to demonstrate how your app works. You can add up to three app previews for each screen size.
Reference the [Apple Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications/) for a summary on
video size and format.

## Google Play Store Asset Requirements

Google has specific requirements for the store asset format and dimenstions and they are different from Apple's. For the most up to
date specifications, reference the [official documentation](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9866151) for detailed requirements
for your Play Store assets.

> See this [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/5lQcrHYhUZkIxsLYCZa3S6/Store-Asset-Requirements?type=design&node-id=1-171&mode=design&t=YC6s5lYVJiwSQPki-0) for a summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See our ["Store Asset Requirements" Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/5lQcrHYhUZkIxsLYCZa3S6/Store-Asset-Requirements?type=design&node-id=1-171&mode=design&t=YC6s5lYVJiwSQPki-0) for a summary
```

Before you can submit your app to the App Store and Play Store, you need to provide some assets for your store listing page.
The goal of these images and videos is to give your prospective users an idea of what your app experience is going to be like.

You will need up upload app screenshots for both stores. Note that while they are called "app screenshots" on both stores, and they *do* have to include accurate
visuals of your app, there is no rule citing that these images have to be screenshots taken on specific devices. The stores will have
requirements on image format and size, but within these restrictions, you can be creative.
For example, a common approach is to design the assets using a design tool such as Figma and incorporate actual app screenshots
(or designs) with supplementary messaging.

## Different approaches for creating "screenshots"

There are three commonly used approaches to creating your store screenshots. You can choose whichever approach works best for your app's needs and your resources.

### Option 1: actual screenshots

The most straightforward option: open up your app on a real device and take the screenshots.

> **Pros**: straightforward to do; most accurate representation of your app
> 
> **Cons**: need to load the app on different devices for a full range of screenshots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pros**: Straightforward to do. Most accurate representation of your app.

**Cons**: Need to load the app on different devices for a full range of screenshots.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Extra newline

<ImageSpotlight

>   alt="Screenshots of the Expo Go App Store Listing Page"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt="Screenshots of the Expo Go Apple App Store Listing Page"
```

  src="/static/images/guides/expo-go-screenshots.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

### Option 2: screenshots within a design

The majority of apps use this approach: it involves taking screenshots of the app (or in some cases using existing
designs instead of actual screenshots) and embedding them in the store assets along with appropriate messaging.

> **Pros:** allows conveying additional messaging within the assets
> 
> **Cons:** the assets need to be created using a design program

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pros:** Allows to convey additional messaging within the assets.

**Cons:** The assets need to be created using a design program.
```

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Screenshots of the Brex App Store Listing Page"
  src="/static/images/guides/brex-screenshots.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

### Option 3: make it fancy

Here you can use elements of your app design to highlight on the store pages, but incorprate them into a design with creative messaging.

> **Pros:** you can make your store page really creative and fun
> 
> **Cons:** need an experienced designer to create and maintain the assets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Pros:** You can make your store page creative and fun.

**Cons:** Need an experienced designer to create and maintain the assets.
```

  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

## iOS App Store Asset Requirements

For the iOS App Store you can upload screenshots (images) and previews (videos). For each, Apple requires specific
widths and heights, so make sure you reference the [documentation](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/screenshot-specifications/)
for the exact sizing. Being even a single pixel off will mean you are unable to submit the images.

See our ["Store Asset Requirements" Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/5lQcrHYhUZkIxsLYCZa3S6/Store-Asset-Requirements?type=design&node-id=1-43&mode=design&t=eFTsHStO7OY2lLsd-0) for an overview
of the minimum asset requirements for an iOS App.

### Screenshots

At a minimum, Apple requires you to upload 2 screenshots for an iPhone without the notch, and 2 screenshots for the iPhone with the notch,
but you an upload up to 10 screenshots per localisation. Note that if your app is available in multiple languages and your screenshots
include text, you should upload screenshots with the appropriate language for each localisation.

If your app runs on an iPad, you will need to also provide iPad-sized screenshots.

> Screenshots can be portrait or landscape.

Author: No. Or rather, if you mix portrait and landscape, it will flip all the landscape ones to portrait.

### Preview (optional)

An app preview is a video you can choose to include to demonstrate how your app works. You can add up to three app previews for each screen size.
Reference the [Apple Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/help/app-store-connect/reference/app-preview-specifications/) for a summary on
video size and format.

## Google Play Store Asset Requirements

Google has specific requirements for the store asset format and dimenstions and they are different from Apple's. For the most up to
date specifications, reference the [official documentation](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9866151) for detailed requirements
for your Play Store assets.

See our ["Store Asset Requirements" Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/5lQcrHYhUZkIxsLYCZa3S6/Store-Asset-Requirements?type=design&node-id=1-171&mode=design&t=YC6s5lYVJiwSQPki-0) for a summary
of the minimum asset requirements for an Android App.

> ### App Icon

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### App icon
```

> Unlike on the iOS App Store where the app icon is always taken automatically from the app bundle,
> on the Google Play store you need to also upload a separate App Icon for your store listing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike on the Apple App Store, where the app icon is always taken automatically from the app bundle, on the Google Play Store, you must also upload a separate App Icon for your store listing.
```

> ### Feature Graphic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Feature graphic
```

Let's use title case here.

> A feature graphic must be provided in order to publish your Store Listing. It is a banner that is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A feature graphic must be provided to publish your Store Listing. It is a banner that is
```

- We can avoid in order to and be concise here with just "to:

displayed at the top of your store listing page.

### Screenshots

> You need to upload at least 4 screenshots in order to publish your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to upload at least four screenshots to publish your app.
```

### Video (optional)

> You can add one preview video to your Store Listing. The video needs to be uploaded to YouTube, and you
> add it by entering a YouTube URL in the "preview video" field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add one preview video to your Store Listing. The video needs to be uploaded to YouTube, and you can add it by entering a YouTube URL in the **preview video** field.
```

- Since it is a settings field, we usually bold them in our docs to draw attention

> ## Bare Mimumim

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Bare minimum
```

Let's use title case here.

> Below is the bare minimum needed in order to publish your apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is the bare minimum required to publish your apps to both app stores.
```

### App Store - iPhone

| Type                                   | Amount | Dimensions                                | Requirements          |
|----------------------------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| Screenshots (iPhone without the notch) | 2-10   | 1242 x 2208                               | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |
| Screenshots (iPhone with the notch)    | 2-10   | 1290 x 2796 OR 1284 x 2778 OR 1242 x 2688 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |

### App Store - iPad

If your app also runs on an iPad, you need to supply additional screenshots.

| Type        | Amount | Dimensions  | Requirements          |
|-------------|--------|-------------|-----------------------|
| Screenshots | 2-10   | 2048 x 2732 | JPG or PNG (no alpha) |

> ### Play Store - Android

Reviewer 2: Let's also move this section before the iOS ones to follow the platform order guideline.
